# The Neuroergonomics and Human Factors group at ISAE-SUPAERO

The Neuroergonomics and Human Factors group at ISAE-SUPAERO conducts research on human error in order to improve performance and safety in high-risk systems such as aviation. The group is composed of about 18 members in total (permanent and non-permanent), and relies on its interdisciplinary expertise in neuroscience, signal processing, computer science, and human factors. We are developing collaborations with important firms such as aircraft manufacturers, airlines, and security agencies. The laboratory is also supported by two industrial chairs funded by AXA Research Found and Dassault Aviation. Leading scientific collaborations in Europe, Asia, and the United States are maintained to conduct ambitious international research. The group own unique ressources such as a 3D-motion flight simulator, light aircrafts, neuroimaging means (electroencephalography, functional near infrared spectroscopy...), and various physiological sensors (electrocardiography...).

Anchored in a neuroergonomic approach, the objective of our research is to go beyond the simple observation of the behavior or the collection of the operator's feelings: we study the neural correlates of the error in paradigms ranging from very controlled laboratory research to real flight experiments, and including aerial simulation. More specifically, our work focuses on the identification of factors that interfere with intellectual performance, such as mental workload, stress, emotion, fatigue and aging. Our research aims at implementing solutions that could help the operator, for example by developing training programs, improving the cockpit design, defining innovative alarms, or proposing real-time monitoring solutions to adapt the system to the operator's mental state.
